1. What is Git?
Free and open source version control system

  * what is version control system?
    A system that keeps track of our files or projects.
    It allows your to revert selected files to previous state, revert the entire project to a previous state, compare changes over time, see who last, modified something so that we can know what might be causing a problem, or what is the issue, who made it, and when with the details.

2 types of VCS
    centralized     decentralized
Why Git
  Free
  Open source
  Scalable
  Super fast
  Cheap branching and merging

What is GitHub?
GitHub ia a web-based hosting service for git repositories.
You can use git without GitHub, but you cannot use GitHub without git.

      Git                             GitHub
  Used for version control            Used for hosting Git repositories
  Installed locally on computer       Cloud based
  Tracks changes made to a file       provides a web interface to view file changes

local repositories
Every VCS tool provides a private workplace as a working copy. Developers make changes in their private workplace and after commit, these changes become a part of the repository. Git takes it one step forward by providing them a private copy of the whole repository. Users can perform many operations with this repository such as add file, remove file, rename file,move file, commit changes, and many more.

Working Directory and Staging Area of Index: An intermediate  area where commits  can be formatted  and reviewed before completing the commit.

Push: send a change to another repository ( may require permission)

Pull: grab a change from  repository

Blobs
Blob Stands for Binary Large Object. Each version of file is represented by blob. A blob holds the file data but does not contain any meta data about the file. It is a binary file, and in Git Database, it is named as SHA1 hash of that file. In Git, files are not addressed by names. Everything is content-addressed.

Trees
Tree is an object, which represents a Directory. It holds Blobs as well as other sub-directories. A tree is a binary file that stores references to blobs and trees which aer also named as SHA1 hash of the tree object.

Git Commands
Clone: Bring a repository hosted somewhere lile GitHub into folder or your local machine.
Add: Track your files and changes

date == 12-05 TimeStamp23:38
